# Academic

Academic v3, as I'll be calling this version, or plain old Academic,
is a platform for annotating and linking resources.  The core idea
comes from the basic job of a graduate student: read papers in some
topic area, and annotate the paper with a short synopsis so that you
don't forget what you read.  A really gifted student can just remember
authors and papers, and can rattle off the evolution of their field in
a non-stop litany of authors, dates, and ideas.  The rest of us
remember some things, but not everything ("Ah yes, CCR was an
important paper that introduced something about something").

While academic papers are still an important area for Academic, the
most useful immediate need for Academic is to help link and catalog
open data sets.  The focus of this application is to collect
information about information (so-called metadata) in one place, and
to simplify the process of linking data sets by allowing links and
relationships to be defined between metadata.

Consider the process of gathering papers on a single
topic, say traffic flow theory.  A researcher would start by looking
for recent papers  with "traffic flow" in their titles, and then start
reading.  Each paper would cover some aspect of traffic flow theory,
and each paper would have one or more authors, one or more related
topic areas, and many references to older papers.  By slowly
collecting all of the references papers and reading them, and
collecting their references and reading them, a student becomes
proficient in a field, learns how the many facets of traffic flow
theory relate to each other, and determines where the gaps in the
literature are and where he or she can contribute something new.

Now consider the process of collecting public data sets.  Each data
set exists in isolation, without any obvious links or references to
other data sets.  And yet, those links do exist.  A data set might
have a geography related to it, perhaps even explicit geographic
fields.  It may have monetary information, that in turn relates to
other data that also has monetary information.  Our work is to gather
data sets and everything that is known about them, so that the gaps in
the "literature" can be identified and filled in.  For example, if one
data set uses census tracts, and another links data by roadway name,
then to link the two sets one would need to link roadway names to
census tracts. If there is no such data set, then it needs to be
created.  If there is such a linkage already, then it will need to be
properly cataloged and temporally tagged to be useful (census tracts
and roadways change over time, and are only meaningful for data
collected at roughly the same time).

The idea of annotating and linking things on the web is certainly not
new.  That was the original idea behind the internet, after all, with
hyperlinks allowing one to link anything to anything else.  However,
the internet today is much less an internet of hyperlinks, and more
like an internet of polished apps and walled gardens for social
interactions.  Thus there is still a need for Academic.



# History

Academic is something I started in grad school and that lived on the
internet for a while until I noticed somebody poaching all my work.
And anyway, it was a mess with a dropdown box or two or three or four
from hell.

# License

  Copyright 2013 James E. Marca

  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
